readme.md, before:

# TeamCity Azure Active Directory Integration

[![Plugin build](https://teamcity.jetbrains.com/app/rest/builds/buildType:(id:TeamCityPluginsByJetBrains_AzureSupport_AzureActiveDirectoryPlugi),branch:master/statusIcon.svg)](https://teamcity.jetbrains.com/viewType.html?buildTypeId=TeamCityPluginsByJetBrains_AzureSupport_AzureActiveDirectoryPlugi&guest=1)
[![official JetBrains project](http://jb.gg/badges/official.svg)](https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/ALL/JetBrains+on+GitHub)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

TeamCity plugin which supports authentication via Microsoft Azure Active Directory.

The plugin is compatible with TeamCity server 10.0+

## Installation

[Download plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9083-azure-active-directory) and install it as [an additional TeamCity plugin](http://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/TCDL/Installing+Additional+Plugins#InstallingAdditionalPlugins-InstallingTeamCityplugins).

## Configuration

### Configuring Azure Active Directory

[Register](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/azure/dn132599.aspx#BKMK_Adding) your TeamCity server as an application in your Azure Active Directory.

Set 'SIGN-ON URL' to `{TEAMCITY_URL}/login.html`

Add 'REPLY URL' `{TEAMCITY_URL}/overview.html`

Also please check for 'CLIENT ID', 'OAUTH 2.0 AUTHORIZATION ENDPOINT' in 'App Endpoints' section.

### Configuring TeamCity server

Add the 'Microsoft Azure Active Directory' HTTP authentication module to your [authentication configuration](http://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/TCDL/Configuring+Authentication+Settings).

Specify valid 'App OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoint' and 'Client ID' retrieved from Azure Portal.

Use the 'Log in using Azure Active Directory' link available on the Login page to log in via your Azure Active Directory account.

## How it works?

This authentication scheme works as following:
- receives the UID, email, username of the AD user the from specified AD
- looks for an existing TeamCity user for the received UID; and if found, authenticates this TeamCity user
- if allowed by the scheme options, tries to find a TeamCity user by the given e-mail
- if the user is not found and user creation is allowed, a new TeamCity user is created; the email is set as the username for the newly created TeamCity user

## Plugin development

### Building plugin from sources

This project uses gradle as a build system. You can easily open it in [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/help/importing-project-from-gradle-model.html) or [Eclipse](http://gradle.org/eclipse/).
Issue the `build` command from the root project to build your plugin. The resulting package will be placed in the `distributions` directory.

### Contributing

Please follow [IntelliJ Coding Guidelines](http://www.jetbrains.org/display/IJOS/IntelliJ+Coding+Guidelines).

## Feedback

Please submit your questions/bugs/feature requests in the [issues](https://github.com/JetBrains/teamcity-azure-active-directory/issues).

Note: This is not a bundled plugin, please do not use the TeamCity official channels to provide feedback for this plugin.

Commit message:

Update details about plugin configuration

readme.md, after:

# TeamCity Azure Active Directory Integration

[![Plugin build](https://teamcity.jetbrains.com/app/rest/builds/buildType:(id:TeamCityPluginsByJetBrains_AzureSupport_AzureActiveDirectoryPlugi),branch:master/statusIcon.svg)](https://teamcity.jetbrains.com/viewType.html?buildTypeId=TeamCityPluginsByJetBrains_AzureSupport_AzureActiveDirectoryPlugi&guest=1)
[![official JetBrains project](http://jb.gg/badges/official.svg)](https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/ALL/JetBrains+on+GitHub)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

TeamCity plugin which supports authentication via Microsoft Azure Active Directory.

The plugin is compatible with TeamCity server 10.0+

## Installation

[Download plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9083-azure-active-directory) and install it as [an additional TeamCity plugin](http://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/TCDL/Installing+Additional+Plugins#InstallingAdditionalPlugins-InstallingTeamCityplugins).

## Configuration

### Configuring Azure Active Directory

Register a new [Azure Active Directory application](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-integrating-applications#adding-an-application) for your TeamCity server with a following parameters:

| Parameter        | Value                          |
| -                | -                              |
| Application type | Web app / API                  |
| Sign-on URL      | `%TEAMCITY_URL%/login.html`    |
| Reply URLs       | `%TEAMCITY_URL%/overview.html` |

Note: Reply URLs could be set in the application settings.

Also please check for 'CLIENT ID', 'OAUTH 2.0 AUTHORIZATION ENDPOINT' in 'App Endpoints' section.

### Configuring TeamCity server

Add the 'Microsoft Azure Active Directory' HTTP authentication module to your [authentication configuration](http://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/TCDL/Configuring+Authentication+Settings).

Specify valid 'OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoint' and 'Application ID' retrieved from Azure Portal.

Note: OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoint URL could be retrieved from the Endpoints available on the App registrations page in Azure portal.

After that 'Log in using Azure Active Directory' link will be available on the Login page.

### Known issues

#### Authentication fails with HTTP 403

> 403 Forbidden: Responding with 403 status code due to failed CSRF check: request's "Origin" header value "null" does not match Host/X-Forwarded-Host header values or server's CORS-trusted hosts, consider adding "Origin: %TEAMCITY_URL%" header.

If you are using modern browser and have specified HTTP URL as `Reply URLs` in Azure AD application browser will set `Origin: null` and `Upgrade-Insecure-Requests` headers after redirecting from Azure AD HTTPS endpoint to the TeamCity HTTP URL due to [security reasons](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Upgrade-Insecure-Requests).

Possible solutions:
* Use HTTPS for TeamCity server and specify it in Azure AD application settings
* For testing you could specify [internal property](https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/TCDL/Configuring+TeamCity+Server+Startup+Properties) `rest.cors.origins=null` (**insecure, don't use it in production**)

## How it works?

This plugin uses [OAuth 2.0 OpenID Connect](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-protocols-openid-connect-code) authentication protocol and works as following:
- receives the UID, e-mail, username of the AD user the from specified Azure AD
- looks for an existing TeamCity user for the received UID; and if found, authenticates this TeamCity user
- if allowed by the scheme options, tries to find a TeamCity user by the given e-mail and marks it by UID
- if the user was found and user details synchronization is enabled it will update user data
- if the user is not found and user creation is allowed, a new TeamCity user is created; the e-mail is set as the username for the newly created TeamCity user.

## Plugin development

### Building plugin from sources

This project uses gradle as a build system. You can easily open it in [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/help/importing-project-from-gradle-model.html) or [Eclipse](http://gradle.org/eclipse/).
Issue the `build` command from the root project to build your plugin. The resulting package will be placed in the `distributions` directory.

### Contributing

Please follow [IntelliJ Coding Guidelines](http://www.jetbrains.org/display/IJOS/IntelliJ+Coding+Guidelines).

## Feedback

Please submit your questions/bugs/feature requests in the [issues](https://github.com/JetBrains/teamcity-azure-active-directory/issues).

Note: This is not a bundled plugin, please do not use the TeamCity official channels to provide feedback for this plugin.
